It's always a good idea to measure the effectiveness of your security controls.
The most important reason is that it
helps improve your security posture and that's a big deal.
Many organizations have hundreds of security controls.
Each one of those designed to protect against specific threats.
The governance role helps ensure each one is functioning.
Measurement also allows you to assess existing tools.
It helps you make sure that what you're paying for meets the organization's needs.
Proofs of concept and product demos are always helpful.
But companies normally don't understand the limitations of software or
hardware until after the products are installed or running.
Sometimes you have to do it as part of a compliance requirement.
We'll talk about compliance in a separate lesson.
But you should know that sometimes governance activities are controls themselves.
While you're measuring control effectiveness,
that very action provides another control layer that can be measured.
Now if your security controls are not operating as intended,
your risk profile actually might be much higher than anticipated.
Think about checking your door locks at night.
You know the locks are there,
but you still check them.
Why? Now, sure, it gives you peace of mind,
but that peace of mind comes from knowing that you've significantly
reduced the risk of an unwanted guest showing up in your home.
In the last section,
we talked about time and function as
the major considerations necessary for measuring control effectiveness.
There are some additional considerations to think about.
I think about the last section as
discovering what it is that you're attempting to measure.
In this section, we're actually going to talk about how to perform the measurement.
The actual measurement can be done in a couple of ways.
You can do it manually or you can do it programmatically.
It can be done once,
continuously, or scheduled intervals.
Your only limitations on how you choose to test are based on factors like your budget,
corporate or security strategy,
and the purpose of your assessment.
Are you measuring the control for internal assessment purposes?
Are you designing measurement to satisfy an external requirement?
Knowing that there are many factors in designing
a test to measure the effectiveness of a security control,
let's walk through that process.
We first need to understand what it is that we're trying to measure.
We're asking what are the function and time variables for the control?
Then we need to think about our other considerations.
These are things like,
what is the purpose of measurement?
Is it for an internal assessment or an external one?
Does the control need to be measured
continuously or does it only needs to be measured once or a few times?
Or what's your budget? What are
the technical skills that are available to you as resources?
Then finally, do we design a manual test or
a programmatic one that runs continuously or at specific intervals?
It all depends on your assessment of the control function,
the time variable, and those other considerations.
Let's look at a brief scenario.
Imagine that you have a policy that says users shall not take any confidential data home.
The what the function and the time variables are.
That it's a preventive control.
It's intended to not allow users to take data home, but it's policy-based.
So there's really no technology enforcing it,
and there is no timing element.
So we're going to have to assume that it's continuous.
The policy never wants an employee to take confidential data home.
Now how would you test and make sure that control works?
Let's think through our other considerations.
If you didn't have very much budget and you just wanted to test at one time,
you could send out a survey.
That doesn't take a lot of effort.
But employees can answer really any way they want it.
So maybe that's not effective.
What if you wanted more certainty?
You could stop every single employee one
evening and then check to make sure that they
weren't taking any confidential data with them.
Now, that also doesn't take a lot of effort,
but it only measures the control effectiveness wants.
Is that good enough? What would you do if you wanted to check everyday?